first up is the Yamaha phase a thousand
is it a beast or a pussycat the phase of
thousand features the engine and a lot
of running gear from the Yamaha flagship
sports bike VR one so with heritage like
that this bike should match days needs
any bike that weighs only 208 kilos and
puts out 145 brake horsepower is going
to be a giggle and this big fazer does
not disappoint
although the r1 engine has been retuned
from our mid-range this bike is still
more than capable of getting you into
trouble with the boys in blue pillion
provision is good with a wide comfy seat
allowing for long distance riding and a
tank capable of 100 250 miles before
refilling depending on how hard you ride
of course handling is good and the
brakes are amongst the best out there
but what else would you expect when the
donor is the r1 so Dave tell me exactly
what you're looking for today I'm
looking to change an old CBR 600 uh I'm
somewhat a little bit different this
time I want to get rid of the fairing
half fairing or fully naked bike six
hundred to a thousand mm-hmm do be fine
I think I'm so glad you said that um I
like this one because I like the blue do
you approve the blue to the silver yeah
so I'm quite looking for to ride on one
of these us well you've answered my
question I was gonna say what do you
think of it looks wise it looks great
yeah very pretty I see you're all right
with a half-bad then um yeah yeah as I
say perfed oh no fair at all I just want
to go away from the fully fed bike okay
try something different right all we
need to know what you think to the right
of it get your helmet on okay this phase
a thousand is a 2001 model on a 51 plate
priced at 4919
pounds the are ones engine is renowned
for being an animal but Yamaha in their
wisdom decided that out-and-out
performance was not what the phase are
needed the engine has been detuned or is
that retuned to give more mid-range
which means more mind-bending
acceleration when buying a phase a
thousand make sure to check the head
bearings and front wheel for signs of
one-wheeled abuse this bike has wheelie
and stopped the ability by the
bucketload so make sure the bike hasn't
been too badly treated service history
is all-important ensure that the bike
has been well cared for and always check
for crash damage and make sure that the
engine and frame numbers match the ones
on the logbook
so Dave what do we think to the Yama
half that's pleasantly surprised a bit
worried at first I thought it was a
little bit too high yeah uh cost me
height I have to watch which bikes I am
riding yeah what uh it was okay
equipment why is the bike mirrors
brilliant see the world behind you
clocks are in your face sounds güell
yeah engines good yeah not bit worried
about the tires I think we've had the
life
no it's could've had a better rider
thank you for decent tyres always a good
bargain implying then oh yeah yeah yeah
I feel that now so I mean that
presumably made you a little unsure on
some of the bends we're doing it yeah
yeah but other than that quite trying
moments okay so you like the thousand CC
engines six hundred to a thousand
perfectly happy with right okay relieved
well we need to give each bike some
points so we'll go to the scoreboard and
see what you give the Yamaha phase a
thousand okay Dave what'd you give it
for style look at our temper style so
quite good-looking bike and performance
same again
hey out turn good melter good gearbox
and practicality
that's coyote I could ride on that for
miles I think I'll give that a nine and
reliability based on the our one engine
no problems with that but another nine
as well and finally values the money
well as far as I can see that seems to
fit in between what you see in the guide
box so bad for money I'll give that a
nine as well hi sky and by Georgia fine
good good